----------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Unique ID: 2D
   Sort As: 2D+01
  Category: t 	TSR libraries
      Flag: n/a
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

INT 2D - ALTERNATE MULTIPLEX INTERRUPT SPECIFICATION (AMIS) [v3.6]
	AH = multiplex number
	AL = function
	    00h installation check
	    01h get private entry point
	    02h uninstall
	    03h request popup
	    04h determine chained interrupts
	    05h get hotkey list
	    06h get device-driver information
	    07h-0Fh reserved for future enhancements
		Return: AL = 00h (not implemented)
	    other  application-dependent
	other registers vary by function (also see individual entries below)
Return: varies by function
Notes:	programs should not use fixed multiplex numbers; rather, a program
	  should scan all multiplex numbers from 00h to FFh, remembering the
	  first unused multiplex in case the program is not yet installed.
	  For multiplex numbers which are in use, the program should compare
	  the first 16 bytes of the signature string to determine whether it
	  is already installed on that multiplex number.  If not previously
	  installed, it should use the first free multiplex number.
	lDOS TSRs (switch /X=), SRDISK (switch /X=), and lDebug (variable
	  TRYAMISNUM) provide ways to try allocating a particular multiplex
	  number first, then if it is already used will scan from 00h to FFh
	  to find a free number. however, to detect an already installed
	  instance they try the particular number first (also /X= or for the
	  debugger TRYDEBUGNUM) and then scan from FFh down to 00h. the idea
	  is to operate on the resident instance that was installed most
	  recently, though this scheme is imperfect.
	lDOS RENUMBER can re-assign a resident multiplexer's multiplex number
	  to another number. to do this it checks that the program's INT 2D
	  entrypoint (obtained from INT 2D/AL=04h) starts with an IISP header
	  followed by CMP AH,imm8 and JE rel8. if found, it checks that the
	  CMP instruction was patched to match the allocated multiplex number
	  and then assumes that this is the only reference to the number.
	functions other than 00h are not valid unless a program is installed
	  on the selected multiplex number
	to be considered fully compliant with version 3.6 of the specification,
	  programs must implement at least functions 00h, 02h (no resident
	  uninstall code required), and 04h (return value 04h).	 TSRs that
	  provide hotkeys with which the user can activate them must also
	  implement function 05h.  TSRs which provide DOS device drivers must
	  also implement function 06h.	The absolute minimum fully-compliant
	  implementation has an overhead of 64 bytes (80 bytes with function
	  05h) plus 22 bytes per hooked interrupt (for the interrupt sharing
	  protocol header and hook list entry).
	lDOS kernel, Loader, lDebug, SRDISK, and INTERC3 are not fully
	  compliant because they don't provide function 02h. lDDebug and
	  lCDebug may list interrupt handlers in their function 04h list
	  that are not currently installed. lDebug doesn't support function
	  05h even if it installs hotkey-like features. lDOS kernel only
	  lists its int 2Dh handler for function 04h.
	the signature string and description may be used by memory mappers
	  to display the installed programs
	to be considered fully compliant, users of this specification must
	  adhere to the IBM interrupt sharing protocol (see #02568), which will
	  permit removal of TSRs in arbitrary order and interrupt handler
	  reordering.  All TSRs following this specification should be
	  removable unless they are loaded from CONFIG.SYS, though they need
	  not keep the code for removing themselves resident; it is acceptable
	  for a separate program to perform the interrupt unhooking and
	  memory-freeing steps of removal.
	A sample public-domain implementation including example TSRs and
	  utility programs may be found in a separate package distributed as
	  AMISLnnn.ZIP (AMISL092.ZIP as of this writing).
	Please let me know if you choose to follow this proposal.  The
	  signature and a list of the private API calls you use would be
	  appreciated, as well.
SeeAlso: INT 2D/AL=00h,INT 2D/AL=01h,INT 2D/AL=02h,INT 2D/AL=03h,INT 2D/AL=04h
SeeAlso: INT 2D/AL=05h,INT 2D/AL=06h,INT 2F"NOTES"

Format of IBM Interrupt Sharing Protocol (IISP) interrupt handler entry point:
Offset	Size	Description	(Table 02568)
 00h  2 BYTEs	short jump to actual start of interrupt handler, immediately
		  following this data block (EBh 10h)
 02h	DWORD	address of next handler in chain, aka downlink
 06h	WORD	signature 424Bh "KB"
 08h	BYTE	EOI flag
		00h software interrupt or secondary hardware interrupt handler
		80h primary hardware interrupt handler (will issue EOI to
		      interrupt controller)
 09h  2 BYTEs	short jump to hardware reset routine
		must point at a valid FAR procedure (may be just RETF)
 0Bh  7 BYTEs	reserved (0) by IBM for future expansion
Notes:	when chaining to the prior handler, the interrupt handler must perform
	  an indirect jump/call using the address at offset 02h in the
	  ISP header.  This permits another AMIS TSR to hook itself into
	  the chain at a position other than as the first handler to receive
	  an interrupt.
	the header's downlink must also be used to uninstall a given handler.
	  it must be expected that other software may modify one's downlinks
	  and one mustn't use stale other copies of the downlink vector later.
	uninstalled iHPFS headers start with 90h EAh (NOP, and a far immediate
	  JMP). they always chain to the next handler.
	some nonstandard headers don't start with the expected short jump, and
	  the hardware reset entry may be just a RETF or IRET rather than JMP.
	lDOS TSRs use the advanced deinstallation method, explained in the
	  KEEPHOOK manual. it searches not only through the topmost reachable
	  chain of IISP headers; if the vector pointing at the handler that's
	  to be uninstalled isn't found starting from the Interrupt Vector
	  Table the uninstaller will query all resident multiplexers for their
	  hooks of the same INT using AL=04h then search the (possibly hidden)
	  chains reachable from these hooks.
	lDOS RENUMBER expects the entry for INT 2D handlers to consist of a
	  short jump at offset 00h, pointing to a CMP AH,imm8 instruction
	  followed by JE rel8. if the imm8 matches the multiplex number that
	  corresponds to this handler it is assumed that the CMP immediate is
	  the single source of truth of this multiplexer's multiplex number.
	some lDOS programs store 80h in the BYTE at offset 08h to indicate
	  a software interrupt that never chains to the stored next handler.
SeeAlso: INT F1/AH=01h"Common ISDN API",INT F1/AH=06h"CAPI",#04068

